>> Sean Larkin: Who knows
what a parser does?
Maybe?
Parser?
So a parser in the broader term
takes a string of source code,
and converts it into what we call an AST,
or an abstract syntax tree.
I love showcasing this, because it's
probably one of the most valuable parser,
if you wanna learn about parsers,
maybe you don't, but
if you do, go to ASTExplore.net.
And like every programming language,
not only has one parser,
they usually have like a bunch, right?
So Webpack uses Acorn as
their parser by default.
Babel uses Babylon.
There's all sorts.
Flow uses its own parser because
they have different ASTs, right?
But the point here is that a parser
takes this string right here and
it actually converts it into
this set of tree and data.
And so it's much easier for
an application or a utility or
a compiler to run through and walk through
a tree to read what the code is, right?
Now what we do with it is that we take and
we create an AST out of that module,
right?
And you can see here, we can see any
type of syntax that's being used.
Let's get even crazier like,
>> Sean Larkin: But,
lets just say an import segment, right?
There's a special token.
So we call these lexical tokens, right?
So it's a way to identify
what kind of syntax it is.
So in this case, it's an import and
it's a literal import statement.
And it's using one specifier,
which is like this namespace, and
it's a default specifier.
This is how we understand exactly what
your code looks like and how it works.
So back to the slides, so
we have a parser class that
uses Acorn behind the scenes,
takes the source coding,
creates an AST out of it.
It parses.
That's what a parser does.
It takes this module object we
get from the module factory,
turns it into an AST and
then it starts walking the graph.
Now as it's walking that graph Just
as you may have saw in AST explorer.
Let's just say, or
this is a great example.
Literally, it just says,
start a program and then it goes, walk.
And what walk does it is
recursively goes through body.
And then it says, okay,
are there any items in the body?
All right, well,
let's start at the first one.
And then it goes through each property.
And so for us, specifically though,
what's important,
is what webpack does is as it's walking,
if it comes across a statement
that represents a dependency,
like an important declaration.
So when it see something like this,
we create and
annotate that on the module object.
So we find all of those, and then we
create these things called dependencies.
And that tells webpack, what files
does this file depend on, right?
So it's like we pass the module
to little parser glasses.
We look for the requires and
imports, even dynamic imports.
And then we attach these
dependency objects to the module.
You can see each of them have,
they could be different flavors.
They could be different import styles.
It could be a common JS style.
It could be AMD.
But the point is that we attach
them to that module, right?
And then finally
the last tapable instance that's really
important is the template, right?
We know what templates do, right?
It's data binding.
It's data binding for
your code or your UIs.
Well, templates here for
us is literally data binding for
these module objects, right?
So the template, classes and
webpack are responsible for
the source code that gets generated.
So, if you took, and
looked at this little diagram,
let me make it bigger, sorry.
>> Sean Larkin: A chunk
is just something that
contains modules in an array.
It allows us to keep track of it.
And so, each of these different
types of abstractions.
So, a chunk, a module, a dependency,
they all have templates.
And they're literally called
chunk template, module template,
main template, which is for
the run time code.
And so, that's what these little handle
bars [LAUGH] are supposed to annotate.
So what happens is we call
a function called render.
And literally what gets generated.
Well, even if you look at this.
You're like, so
each of them generates a little piece of
source code and puts it together, right?
This kind of looks familiar, doesn't it?
>> Sean Larkin: Holy crap!
That's literally the runtime rapper and
the iffy with the modules passed into it.
That's the bundle that we are used
to seeing, that we walked through.
Now i'm just hiding the main runtime here,
but
that's what the main template generates.
The chunk template literally
just generates the array,
the array brackets and that's it.
And then the module template create the
iffys for each module around the function.
And then the dependency
templates transform and
import into a webpack require or a dynamic
import into a webpack require.e or
whatever is the appropriate
transformation for those.